<chapter id="help-no-mods-d">
<title>Initialization of Module directory failed!</title>

<para>There's no mods.d directory!</para>

<para>This page describes what the <filename>mods.d</filename> directory is and how to solve this problem! </para>
<qandaset>
<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>
What is the <filename>mods.d</filename> directory?
</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>
The <filename>mods.d</filename> directory is the directory which should contain the config files of
the modules!  You must have this directory, otherwise you can't use Bibletime
and &sword;! Please read the installation instructions on our homepage!
</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>
<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>
How do I solve this problem?
</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>
The solution is to create a directory <filename>mods.d</filename>:
Please go into your &sword; directory and type "<command>mkdir mods.d</command>" to create the directory.
Now copy the config files of your modules into this package and remove (if they
exist) the file <filename>mods.conf</filename> which isn't required any more.
The <filename>mods.d</filename> directory replaced this file.
 </para>
 <para>
If you find <filename>mods.d</filename> exists, then the global configuration does not exist.
The preferred method of installing the global configuration if you installed &sword; from the cvs or a tarball
is to cd to the directory containing your sword source, and <command>make install_config</command>.  
The global configuration will be placed into <filename>/etc/sword.conf</filename>.

If you have a nonstandard installation where <filename>/etc/sword.conf</filename> can not be set, then set
<command>SWORD_PATH</command> to the location of your sword modules directory.  

For example in &Linux-Mandrake; adding the line <command>export SWORD_PATH=/usr/share/sword</command>
to <filename>~/.bash_profile</filename> or <filename>/etc/bashrc</filename> is the
same as <filename>/etc/sword.conf</filename> containing the line <command>/usr/share/sword</command>
</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>
<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>
Can I start &bibletime; without this directory?
</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>
Yes, it's possible. But it's not very useful.
There are no modules in the main index. It's possible to test &bibletime; this
way, but it's not possible to work with it without modules.
</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>
</qandaset>
</chapter>

