<chapter id="inst-bin">
<title>&bibletime; Program Files
</title>
<para>Program files are provided in the following formats.</para>

<table>
   <title>&bibletime; Distribution Formats</title>
   <tgroup cols="2">
   <thead>
   <row>
   <entry>Format name</entry>
   <entry>Description</entry>
   </row>
   </thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry>
RPM Packages.
</entry>

<entry>
See the <ulink url="http://sourceforge.net/projects/bibletime">sourceforge &bibletime;</ulink>
home page for the distributions supported.
RPM packages are installed using any package manager or the RPM command line.
RPM Installation instructions are <link linkend="inst-user-RPM">here</link>.
</entry>
</row>

<row>
<entry>
Source code.
</entry>

<entry>
The source code can be installed on any distribution meeting the installation prerequisites.
The source code should compile on non <trademark>Intel</trademark> platforms, and most &UNIX; meeting the prerequisites.
Instructions for installation from sourcecode are <link linkend="inst-user-source">here</link>.
</entry>
</row>

</tbody>
   </tgroup>
   </table>
<para>
Language modules which contain the &bibletime; handbook, Bible Study HowTo, Installation Instructions,
and the Help Dialog are provided seperately in RPM, and as tarball sources.  The language modules contain
the documents in both HTML and &XML; Docbook format, so they can be viewed without the main &bibletime; package.</para>
<para>Language modules are installed in the same way as the program modules</para>

</chapter>

