<chapter ID="hdbk_intro"><title>Introduction</title>
<para>
Bibletime is a powerful Bible study tool written for the KDE environment on the
Linux operating system. It is based on the <ulink
url="http://www.crosswire.org">Sword</ulink> library, which provide the back-end
functionality for Bibletime, such as viewing Bible text, searching, bookmarking,
etc. Sword is the flagship product of the <ulink
url="http://www.crosswire.org">Crosswire Bible Society</ulink>. </para>

<para>
There are three types of modules that can be displayed:
</para

<para>
<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term>Bibles</term>
<listitem>
<para>
The full text, with optional Strong's Numbers and footnotes in the text
</para>
</listitem> </varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>Commentaries</term>
<listitem>
<para>
With a <quote>Personal</quote> commentary you can record your own personal
notes to different parts of the Bible.
</para> </listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>Lexicons</term>
<listitem>
<para>
For word definitions and Bible topics. You an choose a key in a list which will
be displayed. </para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>
</para>

<sect1 ID="hdbk_intro_changes"><title>Changes</title>
<para>
Please read the file Changelog of the sourcecode package if you are
interested in more detailed changes. </para>

<para>A listing of the features included in the current package can be found
in the sourcecode at
<ulink url="http://cvs.sourceforge.net/cgi-bin/viewcvs.cgi/bibletime/bibletime/ChangeLog">
CVS log for <filename>bibletime/bibletime/ChangeLog</filename></ulink></para>
</sect1>

<sect1 ID="hdbk_intro_ToDo"><title>ToDo</title>
<para>
Very much!
</para>
<para>
We have lots to do. Because we are a very small team of active developers it's
very hard to get reasonable results in a short time. If you are interested in
helping the Bibletime team, please contact us at
<ulink url="http://sourceforge.net/pm/?group_id=954">Sourceforge bibletime home page</ulink>.
Information can also be found at <ulink url="http://www.bibletime.de">.</ulink></para>

<para>The Bibletime project needs programmers / developers, reviewers, testers, and
prayer warriors.  If you can help with any of these tasks or think up another, please join us.
Without your help, Bibletime will develop very very slow and it will take a very long time until you get a
full-featured Bible study tool.
</para> </sect1>

<sect1 ID="hdbk_intro_motivation"><title>Motivation</title>
<para>
Our desire is to serve God, and to do our part to help others grow in their
relationship with Him. We have found a gaping hole, in that there has been a
total lack of user-friendly Bible-study software available for Linux-based
computers. We have developed Bibletime to fill that void.
We have striven to make this a powerful, quality program, and still make it
simple and intuitive to operate. It is our desire that God be praised, as He is
the Source of all good things.
</para>
<screen>
<quote>
Every good thing given and every perfect gift is from above,
coming down from the Father of lights, with whom there is no
variation or shifting shadow.
</quote>
-James 1:17, NASB
</screen>
<para>
God bless you as you use this program, and may He be glorified by the work of
our hands!
</para>

</sect1>

</chapter>

