<chapter id="help_first_startup">
<title>First Startup</title>

<table>
<title>

The first startup of BibleTime!  This table describes the features of BibleTime!

</title>
<tgroup cols="2">
<thead>
<row>
<entry>
<emphasis>
Feature
</emphasis>
</entry>
<entry>
<emphasis>
Description
</emphasis>
</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry>
<emphasis>

MDI

</emphasis>
</entry>
<entry>

MDI is the abbreviation for <emphasis>Multiple Document Interface.</emphasis>
With the help of MDI it's possible to have more than one presenter opened at the
same time! You may view two different bibles side by side and compare their
text. But it's also possible to open only one window as in BibleTime 0.2x. The
menu <emphasis>Window</emphasis> is used to work with the MDI interface.

The MDI area will only contain presenters, nothing else. This clean
presentation avoids confusing users with too many choices.

</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>
<emphasis>
Presenter
</emphasis>
</entry>
<entry>

A presenter is a window inside the MDI area of BibleTime. A presenters presents
the content of a document (SWORD module) in a reasonable format (for example Bibles will be
displayed as HTML text with hyperlinks to verse references).
We use presenters to have a general approach for the future.
Crosswire will extend SWORD as more material is made available for distribution.
When new module types are created for Sword we will simply create additional presenters.
This approach makes BibleTime extensible in the future, and able to display any
type of module that might be created in (for example maps or sound modules ...).

</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>
<emphasis>
Group manager
</emphasis>
</entry>
<entry>

The main index is the tree on the left side of BibleTime's application window.  The
main index combines the bookmark management and module management of
BibleTime 0.2x. To work with the main index use the right mouse button menu.

The main index is Drag 'n' Drop capable: You can drag verse references from a
an open document into the main index to create a bookmark, and you can move items in
the tree (e.g. move groups or bookmarks into another group).

</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>
<emphasis>
Search interface
</emphasis>
</entry>
<entry>

The search feature is now in its own window. Click with the right mousebutton
on a module and select "Search module(s)" to open the searchdialog. The dialog
contains sections to enter the searchphrase, set the searchscope and to navigate
through the found items. The last tab shows the graphical search analysis .


</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>
<emphasis>
Drag 'n' Drop
</emphasis>
</entry>
<entry>

Drag & Drop is an important part of BibleTime! You can drag documents, verse
references, bookmarks, document groups, search results etc. Places where you can drop
them are the main index, the document windows, and the commentary editor.

Simply play around a little to find out how our Drag & Drop system does work!
We hope you like it.

</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>

<table>
<title>

Here's a short list of useful URLS with more information about BibleTime!

</title>
<tgroup cols="2">
<thead>
<row>
<entry>
<emphasis>

URL

</emphasis>
</entry>
<entry>
<emphasis>

Description

</emphasis>
</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry>
<emphasis>

<ulink url="http://www.bibletime.de/">www.bibletime.de

</ulink>
</emphasis>
</entry>
<entry>

This is the homepage of BibleTime! Browse to this page to read documentation
pages. Don't forget to read the FAQ on <ulink url="http://www.bibletime.de">
www.bibletime.de</ulink>, it contains answers to questions you'll probably have.

</entry>
</row>

<row>
<entry>
<emphasis>

<ulink url="http://www.crosswire.or</emphasis>g/">www.crosswire.org

</ulink>
</emphasis>
</entry>
<entry>

This is the home of Crosswire! Crosswire is the Bible society which produces the
Bible text module library - and the library manager SWORD! You can down load the
Bible text modules from this page. Most of the modules available from crosswire
are either in the public domain or have been released to crosswire for distribution
by the copyright holder. Modules that are not released for free distribution are
locked. Please see the <ulink url="./module_encrypted.html">helpdialog on locked
modules</ulink> before downloading locked modules.

</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
</chapter>
