<chapter id="inst_preq">
<title>Bibletime Prerequisites
</title>
<para>Bibletime is still under development.  Versions 0.3 or 0.2
are available and relatively stable.  The earlier versions use Qt 1.x
and kde 1.x, so the required libraries will already be installed.</para>

<section id="devl_10"> <title> Requirements for
Bibletime Version 1.0 Development Version</title>

<para>
This document describes how to install BibleTime 1.0
All of the packages required for Bibletime to compile are included in mandrake
7.2 and SuSE 7.2.  It is also possible to compile Bibletime on most other
distributions.  If you encounter compile errors, please read the messages, they
should lead you to missing packages which you will probably find on your
installation disks. </para> <para>The following table contains information of
the two packages which are new additions to the package set which can be added
to most distributions, and are required to enable Bibletime 1.0 to work.</para>


<table>
<title>
Packages required for installation of Bibletime 1.0 and later.
</title>
<tgroup cols=2>
<thead>

<row>
<entry>Package</entry>
<entry>Location</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry>
QT 2.2x
</entry>
<entry>
<ulink url="http://www.trolltech.com"> http://www.trolltech.com</ulink>
</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>
KDE 2.0 (at least the libraries)
</entry>
<entry>
<ulink url="http://www.kde.org"> http://www.kde.org</ulink>
</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>
SWORD 1.51a
</entry>
<entry>
<ulink url="http://www.crosswire.org">
http://www.crosswire.org/Download Sword Modules and Source</ulink>
</entry></row> </tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
</section>
<section id="inst_preq_install">
<title>Installation of prerequisite programs</title>
<para>Now download the prerequisites and compile the libraries</para>

<para>First you have to compile the QT 2.2.2 or QT 2.2.3 sources. I assume the
user has his QT sources in <filename>/usr/lib/qt2</filename>, his KDE2 sources
in <filename>/usr/src/kde2/kdelibs</filename> and his KDE2 directory is
<filename>/usr/local/kde2</filename>, if you don't like it use your own settings
for this.</para>

<screen>
export QTDIR=/usr/lib/qt-2.2.2
cd $QTDIR
./configure -sm -system-libpng -system-jpeg
make
</screen>

<para>
If you have enough RAM and a fast computer you can speedup the compile process
by adding <command>"-j2"</command> to the make options. For example
<command>"make -j2"</command>. If you have a slow computer with little RAM
exit X windows and run make from a terminal to speed up the process.  After the
compiling process is finished you have to compile your KDE2 stuff. Please do
something like this:</para>

<screen>
export QTDIR=/usr/lib/qt-2.2.2
export KDEDIR=/usr/local/kde2
cd /usr/src/kde2/kdelibs
./configure
make
make install
</screen>

<para>The compilation of QT and KDE should finish without problems or errors.
It's possible to add <command>"-j2"</command> again to speed up the compiling
process if you have enough RAM and a fast PC.</para>


</section>
</chapter>