<chapter id="inst_devl"><title>Getting Development Sources</title>
<para>
This chapter describes what must be done to obtain components of Bibletime and
sword from the CVS repository. The sources will usually successfully
compile, however as the CVS may contain unproven code there will be
days when the compiles code does not work.  This is after all software under
development.</para>
<para>If you want stable code, please download one of the released versions of
Bibletime from <ulink url="http://www.bibletime.de">The Bibletime
Home Page</ulink></para>


<section id="inst_devl_general"><title>General Information</title>

<para>
Bibletime consists of sword, the sword modules, and bibletime.
When Sword modules are displayed in bibletime we call them documents.</para><para>

Sword is the backend (something like a librarian) that fetches sword modules and
passes them to Bibletime for presentation.  All three of these must be installed
for bibletime to function. </para>

<para>The sword modules used in the current bibletime development module are the
released versions.  These are available from <ulink
url="http://www.crosswire.org">Crosswire Bible Society</ulink>.  There are
development versions of the sword modules available for some ongoing crosswire
projects, these are not used by any version of Bibletime just now.  If you are
interested in sword development modules please contact 
<email>scribe@crosswire.org </email> </para>
<para>The Bibletime development project is hosted on
<ulink url="http://sourceforge.net">Sourceforge</ulink>.  Current development
information and the latest CVS are available on Sourceforge.</para> </section>

<section id="inst_devl_cvs"><title>Concurrent Versioning Software (CVS)</title>

<para>
The Sword and Bibletime development archives are maintained in CVS format.
The Sword CVS is on the crosswire server and the Bibletime CVS is on the
Sourceforge server.  To fetch the current CVS version you will need to login into
the CVS repository as an anonymous user.
</para>
<para>
If you obtain a developers account, the instructions will be the same
except that you will need to use your account information instead of the
anonymous user.
</para>
<section id="inst_devl_cvs_sword"><title>Sword CVS</title>
<para>
To download a copy of the current Sword CVS open a terminal and issue the
following commands:
</para>
<screen>
$ cd ./Develop
$ export CVSROOT=:pserver:anonymous@cvs.crosswire.org:/usr/local/cvsroot
$ cvs login
$ Password: anonymous
$ cvs checkout sword
</screen>
<para>
This will place a copy of the Sword source code  into ./Develop/sword .
</para>
<para>
To close the connection, type <command>exit</command>
</para>

</section>
<section id="inst_devl_cvs_bibletime"><title>Bibletime CVS</title>
<para>
The Bibletime CVS is posted on Sourceforge.  To download a copy of
the current Bibletime CVS open a terminal and issue the
following commands:
</para>
<screen>
$ cd ./Develop
$ cvs -d:pserver:anonymous@cvs.bibletime.sourceforge.net:/cvsroot/bibletime login
  #simply press return at the password prompt
$ cvs -z3 -d:pserver:anonymous@cvs.bibletime.sourceforge.net:/cvsroot/bibletime co bibletime
</screen>
<para>
To fetch a copy of the Bibletime CVS from Sourceforge, use the
commands in the following screenshot.
</para>
<screen>

$ export CVS_RSH=ssh
$ cvs -z3 -d:ext:<emphasis>developername</emphasis>@cvs.bibletime.sourceforge.net:/cvsroot/bibletime co bibletime
Enter your password when requested.

</screen>
<para>
This will place a copy of the Sword source code  into ./Develop/bibletime .
</para>
<para>
To close the connection, type <command>exit</command></para>
</section>
</section>
<section id="inst_devl_cvs_commands"><title>CVS Commands</title>
<para>
The following commands are used when working with CVS repositories.
These instructions do not work on the Sourceforge CVS repository,
<ulink url="http://sourceforge.net">please read the site
documentation section on the Sourceforge CVS repository</ulink>.
</para>
<para>
To update your source, log on to the CVS repository (if you used the anonymous
user account the last time you must use it now as well).  Change the current
directory of your terminal to your local repository (for example cd ./Develop).
Then use the following command:</para> <screen> cvs -z4 update -Pd
</screen>
<para>
Other commands useful to developers (these commands will not work for anonymous
user) are:</para> <screen>
Commit your changes:
        cvs -z4 commit path/of/file
or
        cd path/of/file
        cvs -z4 commit path/of/file

Add a new file to the CVS repository (for example a new part of the
handbook):
        cvs -z4 add path/of/file
        cvs -z4 commit

To remove a file:
        cvs -z4 remove path/of/file
        cvs -z4 commit
</screen>
</section>
<section id="inst_devl_cvs_gui"><title>CVS GUI Interface</title>
<para>
TkCVS can be used to access the sword repository.
</para>
<para>
The current version of TkCVS (6.3) has a bug that makes it impossible to log on
to a CVS repository after the GUI interface is up.  The workaround is to open a
terminal, log onto the CVS server, and then to start TkCVS.
</para>
<screen>
$ export CVSROOT=:pserver:anonymous@cvs.crosswire.org:/cvs/bibletime
$ cvs login
$ Password: anonymous
$ tkcvs
</screen>
</section>
</chapter>




